Second-Line Therapies
Several other medications have good evidence of effectiveness for migraine. However, they are reserved as second-line agents because of adverse effects, route of administration, cost, or abuse potential.

DIHYDROERGOTAMINE
Intranasal dihydroergotamine has strong evidence of effectiveness but more adverse effects than triptans because of its decreased receptor specificity. Nausea is a common and significant adverse effect, and metoclopramide (Reglan) is often administered first. Because of its vasoconstrictive properties, dihydroergotamine can cause leg cramps or tingling in the extremities. If this occurs, the dose should be reduced or the medication stopped. It should not be used in pregnant women.

OPIOIDS
Opioids such as butorphanol, codeine, tramadol, and meperidine (Demerol) have moderate evidence of effectiveness for migraine. However, they have a high abuse potential and induce receptor changes that can decrease response to therapy, and routine use is not recommended.

ANTIEMETICS
Antiemetics are often used for migraine. The dopamine antagonists chlorpromazine, droperidol, metoclopramide, and prochlorperazine have moderate evidence supporting their use. They are often administered parenterally. Metoclopramide and prochlorperazine are the most extensively studied; both have been proven superior to placebo. In limited head-to-head studies, prochlorperazine proved as effective as or superior to other antiemetics. All dopamine antagonists carry a risk of extrapyramidal adverse effects. Although these are uncommon with intermittent use, patients should be cautioned about overuse of these medications.

OTHER MEDICATIONS
Several parenteral medications are available for office-based care. Ketorolac (30 to 60 mg) is commonly used. Promethazine, a dopamine antagonist with antihistamine properties, outperforms placebo, even when used alone. Both of these medications are administered intramuscularly. Promethazine is sedating, and patients should not be allowed to drive themselves home after receiving it.