1.2 MIGRAINE WITH AURA
Description:
Recurrent attacks, lasting minutes, of unilateral fully-reversible visual, sensory or other central nervous system symptoms that usually develop gradually and are usually followed by headache and associated migraine symptoms.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. At least two attacks fulfilling criteria B and C
B. One or more of the following fully reversible aura symptoms:
1. visual
2. sensory
3. speech and/or language
4. motor
5. brainstem
6. retinal
C. At least three of the following six characteristics:
1. at least one aura symptom spreads gradually over ≥5 minutes
2. two or more aura symptoms occur in succession
3. each individual aura symptom lasts 5-60 minutes1
4. at least one aura symptom is unilateral
5. at least one aura symptom is positive
6. the aura is accompanied, or followed within 60 minutes, by headache
D. Not better accounted for by another ICHD-3 diagnosis.

Prodromal symptoms may begin hours or a day or two before the other symptoms of a migraine attack with aura. They include various combinations of fatigue, difficulty in concentrating, neck stiffness, sensitivity to light and/or sound, nausea, blurred vision, yawning and pallor. The term “prodrome”, which has replaced “premonitory phase” or “premonitory symptoms”, does not include aura. Postdromal symptoms, most commonly fatigue and elated or depressed mood, may follow resolution of the headache, persisting for up to 48 hours; these are less well studied.

1.2.4 Retinal migraine
Description:
Repeated attacks of monocular visual disturbance, including scintillations, scotomata or blindness, associated with migraine headache.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. Attacks fulfilling criteria for 1.2 Migraine with aura and criterion B below
B. Aura characterized by both of the following:
1. fully reversible, monocular, positive and/or negative visual phenomena (eg, scintillations, scotomata or blindness) confirmed during an attack by either or both of the following:
– clinical visual field examination
– the patient’s drawing of a monocular field defect (made after clear instruction)
2. at least two of the following:
– spreading gradually over ≥5 minutes
– symptoms last 5-60 minutes
– accompanied, or followed within 60 minutes, by headache
C. Not better accounted for by another ICHD-3 diagnosis, and other causes of amaurosis fugax have been excluded.