1.2 MIGRAINE WITH AURA
Description:
Recurrent attacks, lasting minutes, of unilateral fully-reversible visual, sensory or other central nervous system symptoms that usually develop gradually and are usually followed by headache and associated migraine symptoms.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. At least two attacks fulfilling criteria B and C
B. One or more of the following fully reversible aura symptoms:
1. visual
2. sensory
3. speech and/or language
4. motor
5. brainstem
6. retinal
C. At least three of the following six characteristics:
1. at least one aura symptom spreads gradually over ≥5 minutes
2. two or more aura symptoms occur in succession
3. each individual aura symptom lasts 5-60 minutes
4. at least one aura symptom is unilateral
5. at least one aura symptom is positive
6. the aura is accompanied, or followed within 60 minutes, by headache
D. Not better accounted for by another ICHD-3 diagnosis.

Prodromal symptoms may begin hours or a day or two before the other symptoms of a migraine attack with aura. They include various combinations of fatigue, difficulty in concentrating, neck stiffness, sensitivity to light and/or sound, nausea, blurred vision, yawning and pallor. The term “prodrome”, which has replaced “premonitory phase” or “premonitory symptoms”, does not include aura. Postdromal symptoms, most commonly fatigue and elated or depressed mood, may follow resolution of the headache, persisting for up to 48 hours; these are less well studied.

1.2.1 Migraine with typical aura
Description:
Migraine with aura in which aura consists of visual and/or sensory and/or speech/language symptoms, but no motor weakness, and is characterized by gradual development, duration of each symptom no longer than one hour, a mix of positive and negative features and complete reversibility.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. Attacks fulfilling criteria for 1.2 Migraine with aura and criterion B below
B. Aura with both of the following:
1.  fully reversible visual, sensory and/or speech/language symptoms
2. no motor, brainstem or retinal symptoms.

1.2.1.1 Typical aura with headache
Description:
Migraine with typical aura in which aura is accompanied or followed within 60 minutes by headache with or without migraine characteristics.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. Attacks fulfilling criteria for 1.2.1 Migraine with typical aura and criterion B below
B. Headache, with or without migraine characteristics, accompanies or follows the aura within 60 minutes.

1.2.1.2 Typical aura without headache
Description:
Migraine with typical aura in which aura is neither accompanied nor followed by headache of any sort.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. Attacks fulfilling criteria for 1.2.1 Migraine with typical aura and criterion B below
B. No headache accompanies or follows the aura within 60 minutes

Comments:
In some patients, a typical aura is always followed by migraine headache, but many patients have, in addition, attacks with aura followed by a less distinct headache or even without headache. A number of patients have, exclusively, 1.2.1.2 Typical aura without headache.

In the absence of headache fulfilling criteria for 1.1 Migraine without aura, the precise diagnosis of aura and its distinction from mimics that may signal serious disease (eg, transient ischaemic attack) becomes more difficult and often requires investigation. When aura occurs for the first time after age 40, when symptoms are exclusively negative (eg, hemianopia) or when aura is prolonged or very short, other causes, particularly transient ischaemic attacks, should be ruled out.