First-Line Therapies
TRIPTANS
Triptans are an effective first-line treatment for moderate to severe migraine. As 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor agonists, they are pharmacologically specific for migraine and can be used in adequate doses with relatively few major adverse effects. Triptans share a common mechanism of action but differ in routes of administration, cost, and pharmacokinetics, allowing the choice of specific medication to be individualized to the patient's migraine pattern. Patients may respond to certain triptans but not others because of genetic factors underlying migraine. The best results occur when triptans are taken early in an attack. For migraine with aura, evidence suggests that the best results are achieved by taking the triptan at the onset of pain rather than the onset of aura, although taking a triptan during a typical aura seems to be safe. 

A meta-analysis of the effectiveness of the seven available triptans (almotriptan [Axert], eletriptan [Relpax], frovatriptan [Frova], naratriptan [Amerge], rizatriptan [Maxalt], sumatriptan [Imitrex], and zolmitriptan [Zomig]) found that standard doses provided headache relief at two hours in 42% to 76% of patients and complete pain relief at two hours in 18% to 50%. For headache relief at two hours, standard-dose triptans alone performed better than ergot alkaloids, equal to or better than NSAIDs and acetaminophen, and equal to or slightly worse than combination therapies (triptan plus NSAID or acetaminophen).

Sumatriptan is the most extensively studied triptan. Its effectiveness varies by dose and route of administration. All triptans have strong evidence of effectiveness, but few head-to-head comparisons have been performed. The strongest evidence and most favorable outcomes are reported for subcutaneous sumatriptan, rizatriptan orally disintegrating tablets (Maxalt Mlt), zolmitriptan orally disintegrating tablets (Zomig Zmt), and eletriptan tablets. Sumatriptan administered as a subcutaneous 6-mg injection has the most favorable NNT for complete pain relief at two hours (NNT = 2).

Triptans may not be effective in all patients or all migraine episodes. Repeating the same dose of the same medication may not relieve persistent symptoms. However, if a migraine resolves but recurs within 24 hours, the initial triptan is likely to be successful. Combining the triptan with 500 mg of naproxen or choosing a triptan with a longer half-life may reduce recurrence rates. In a randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing sumatriptan plus naproxen (Treximet) with each medication alone, the combination was superior for partial pain relief at two hours, complete pain relief at two hours, and sustained pain relief at 24 hours. The fixed-dose combination pill contains 85 mg of sumatriptan, a dose not available in sumatriptan alone. The fixed-dose combination pill is often reserved as second-line treatment because of its cost, but using sumatriptan (50 mg) plus naproxen (500 mg) has been found noninferior. Naproxen has been studied in combination only with sumatriptan, but it is reasonable to combine it with other triptans.

Triptans are generally well tolerated. A 2016 meta-analysis found no significantly increased risk of serious adverse effects. With the exception of almotriptan and frovatriptan, most triptans were associated with fatigue, dizziness, chest discomfort, somnolence, and nausea. Risk of minor adverse effects varies by medication and route of administration.

Although triptans are effective, they may be expensive. Appropriate individualized use is critical. Strategies to improve cost-effective migraine care include advising patients to use the medication early in the attack and using the stratified treatment approach. Basing initial treatment on the severity of the patient's attacks reduces the risk of treatment failure. Although the initial therapy may not be the least expensive option, the higher probability of success avoids payment for medications that do not work, as well as the cost of lost productivity, disruption of activities, and repeated medical visits for unresolved migraines.