1.2 MIGRAINE WITH AURA
Description:
Recurrent attacks, lasting minutes, of unilateral fully-reversible visual, sensory or other central nervous system symptoms that usually develop gradually and are usually followed by headache and associated migraine symptoms.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. At least two attacks fulfilling criteria B and C
B. One or more of the following fully reversible aura symptoms:
1. visual
2. sensory
3. speech and/or language
4. motor
5. brainstem
6. retinal
C. At least three of the following six characteristics:
1. at least one aura symptom spreads gradually over ≥5 minutes
2. two or more aura symptoms occur in succession
3. each individual aura symptom lasts 5-60 minutes
4. at least one aura symptom is unilateral
5. at least one aura symptom is positive
6. the aura is accompanied, or followed within 60 minutes, by headache
D. Not better accounted for by another ICHD-3 diagnosis.

Prodromal symptoms may begin hours or a day or two before the other symptoms of a migraine attack with aura. They include various combinations of fatigue, difficulty in concentrating, neck stiffness, sensitivity to light and/or sound, nausea, blurred vision, yawning and pallor. The term “prodrome”, which has replaced “premonitory phase” or “premonitory symptoms”, does not include aura. Postdromal symptoms, most commonly fatigue and elated or depressed mood, may follow resolution of the headache, persisting for up to 48 hours; these are less well studied.

1.2.2 Migraine with brainstem aura
Previously used terms:
Basilar artery migraine; basilar migraine; basilar-type migraine.

Description:
Migraine with aura symptoms clearly originating from the brainstem, but no motor weakness.

Diagnostic criteria:
A. Attacks fulfilling criteria for 1.2 Migraine with aura and criterion B below
B. Aura with both of the following:
….1. at least two of the following fully reversible brainstem symptoms:
……..a) dysarthria
……..b) vertigo
……..c) tinnitus
……..d) hypacusis
……..e) diplopia
……..f) ataxia not attributable to sensory deficit
……..g) decreased level of consciousness (GCS ≤13)
….2. no motor or retinal symptoms.

Notes:
Dysarthria should be distinguished from aphasia.
Vertigo does not embrace and should be distinguished from dizziness.
This criterion is not fulfilled by sensations of ear fullness.
Diplopia does not embrace (or exclude) blurred vision.
The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score may have been assessed during admission; alternatively, deficits clearly described by the patient allow GCS estimation.